In this section,
we will discuss off-the-shelf solutions to meet and address your
requirements as an alternative to a custom-built solution.
Should I even have to say this?
Clearly understand your business needs and make sure the off-the-shelf
solution is the right fit for your organization.
Now, this applies to not only the off-the-shelf option,
but custom software as well.
The difference is that with custom software,
you can continue to tweak or refine to continually meet and
address your requirements if you didn't get your
requirements right in the first place.
But with off-the-shelf, well, you basically get exactly what you pay for,
or you may need to continually pay a third-party vendor high fees and
long turnaround times for further product customization.
So what are off-the-shelf solutions?
Well, they're pre-built boxed solutions.
These are software solutions aimed at addressing specific needs,
but they are targeted towards a mass market audience or a broad industry.
They are very affordable by leveraging distributed costs.
Off-the-shelf solutions are typically affordable because their
development costs are distributed across the broader audience.
Features tend to be one size fits all.
Since they are targeted for a broad audience, you get what you get.
Its features and functions have to be more generic or massively more complex.
Very feature rich.
Since they need broad appeal, they can be loaded with tons of features.
Now, you may have to adjust your processes and behavior.
How you do your business now is likely not how the
solution would like you to do your business.
Most off-the-shelf solutions will not be a perfect fit for your company.
The fact that you will have to adjust your processes is a hidden cost,
such as training, staffing, equipment, you name it.
On the other hand, if you have very weak processes,
you can simply adopt the business flows of the solution and possibly save money.
Let's reset for a moment and look at our options.
The first, we have fully customized software.
In this option,
you create a custom piece of software to meet every business challenge you have,
a fully integrated solution that matches your
processes and business requirements.
Next, off-the-shelf software, which we have just defined on the last slide.
It may be more affordable, may meet your needs,
but likely has more functionality than you need,
which is not that bad since you may grow into it.
An example would be Microsoft Dynamics 365.
Next is what I'm calling off-the-shelf plus.
There are some commercial software solutions that you can buy
that have after-market customizable support,
which allows you to start with a strong foundational base and refine it to
meet your needs using third-party software companies.
An example would be Salesforce.
If you take this option,
you want a large number of third-party vendors to choose from.
These vendors can provide software add-ons and skilled people
to help you transition to your new solution.
Lastly, customized software with off-the-shelf components.
This might be the best of both worlds since this option can be a
cost-efficient way to obtain the leverage of off-the-shelf solutions,
but wrapped by custom software to more closely align with your requirements,
and hopefully not incurring the same level of cost
as if it was all customizable.
Why use off-the-shelf software?
Well, lower upfront cost.
Certainly a great appeal since most solutions now are subscription based,
so you don't have a huge capital expense.
Feature rich, so it'll more likely cover all of your requirements.
May meet most of your business needs because it's, in fact, feature rich.
Support is often included or can be added with a maintenance contract.
That's a plus.
User communities across the internet and forums help provide self-help support.
The better the ecosystem of the solution,
the more support options you will have, so look for that.
Quick to deploy.
Well, on a click of a button,
you might be up and running and not have to wait for a
long custom development project.
All design, development, QA testing is handled by the vendor,
not you, and thus keeping your labor costs down.
When might you use off-the-shelf software?
No internal development staff.
Well, that makes sense.
Time to market is critical.
So you don't have any time to build your custom solutions?
Well, off-the-shelf may be for you.
So many choices in the cloud, how can you not at least look?
There are countless apps and services in the marketplace today.
Great for back office requirements since this type of requirement tends
to meet most companies' requirements pretty closely,
such as payroll, HR applications, time and labor tracking,
desktop tools, disk space, virtual servers,
project management tools, and many more.
I will talk a little more about back office
requirements later on in this module.
In the case of off-shelf solutions, the examples are endless.
But just so you get the idea, here are a few examples.
Certainly in the Office environment, Microsoft Office 365, the G Suite.
In project management, Atlassian, Monday.
In payroll, ADP, Kronos.
In sales, Salesforce, Micro Dynamics CRM.
The complete list is almost infinite,
and the cloud has enabled a whole new generation of off-the-shelf solutions,
so check them out.
Here is some guidance on how to choose your off-the-shelf solution.
Well first, choose wisely.
The decision between a custom piece of business software and a
prepackaged solution is one that can have far-reaching consequences
that are felt for years down the road.
Therefore, think long term.
It's imperative that you make the decision with the
long-term ramifications in mind.
Short-term pain will often lead to long-term gain,
while the unenviable opposite can also be true.
Document your requirements.
Document your needs, key features, etc.
Since you are a business analyst at heart,
you should be able to quickly develop a business
requirements document for off-the-shelf solutions.
Research your potential options and do a gap analysis.
A gap analysis is a comparison of your requirements versus the
features offered by the solution providers.
The smaller the gap, the better they meet your requirements.
Experiment with trial solutions.
In other words, pay a nominal fee and take a test run.
And if the trial looks promising,
then try a pilot with a subset of eager users to truly prove
out some use cases in your environment.
If you want to differentiate your company from the pack,
you may need very unique and special solutions,
and hence, off-the-shelf solutions may not be for you.
So let's dig a little further into that concept.
Here is some guidance on when to choose off-the-shelf software versus
custom software from a slightly different perspective.
For applications that do not interact with your customers or suppliers,
such as payroll, timekeeping, office products,
and job posting, for example, that would make sense.
You may want to consider off-the-shelf.
Trust me,
your customers do not care whether you get paid or
what email environment you are using.
Therefore, choosing out-of-the-box,
pre-made solutions may work just great because your customers
are not interacting with those applications.
But your customers and suppliers do care about any interaction they
do have with your company's processes and systems.
If they like the interaction, they will continue to buy from you.
And since business is so fast moving and the market's so challenging,
the ability to further customize your software to
quickly meet those requirements,
and thus differentiate your company from the pack,
may be the path for you.
So in this case, please consider the option of customized software with off-the-shelf components.